Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to create a NAT gateway and we're going to create a E2 instance in a private
subnet and we're going to see how we can use the NAT gateway to access the Internet.
Now one of the things you may have noticed when we showed this slide in the last lab is that the NAT
gateway is in a public subnet so to get the elastic IP that it needs to access the internet it must
be in a public subnet.
So that's the key thing to make sure you get right.
Let's head over to the console and create this configuration so I'm in the VPC dashboard and what I'm
going to do is go down to Nat gateways.
She's that Gateway and I'm gonna choose my subnet.
So as I mentioned you want to put this into a public subnet so these free here are definitely public
subnet.
So I'm just gonna choose one of these and then it asks for an elastic IP.
Now we don't have one allocated to our account if we did we could just choose it here instead.
We're just going to create a new elastic IP and create that Gateway and that's it.
You can now see that we have the NAT gateway I.D. so that's awesome.
That's what we're going to use in our roundtable.
Let's click close and we can see that the status is pending so will take a few minutes to actually get
this up to a status where we can actually use it.
And while that's happening let's go and configure our round table.
So what I want to do is go to my round table here.
Aarti 1 So this is the one that's associated with my private subnets.
So these two guys here are my private subnets private subnet 1 and 2.
And what I want to do is go to roots edit roots add rails and I'm going to provide the 0 0 0 0 slash
0 which basically means any address.
So as I mentioned before you have your site a block which is routed locally using the VPC router and
this address range says that for any other IP address if the destination is any other IP address not
within this site a block send it to and we can choose the net Gateway and it's going to send it to the
net Gateway and that's all we need to do.
We can click save rounds so that's done.
Let's head over to the easy to management console.
So I'm just going to open this in another tab head into here and I'm going to choose create instance.
Now I terminated by instances from the previous lab.
So let's just choose to create a new one.
And I'm gonna put this into my private subnet 1 choose next next next and let's just give it the Web
access and review and launch.
So that instance is launching now cause we need to be at a connect to that instance.
So I am going to still need a instance and a public subnet if you left your instance is running from
the previous lab.
You should be able to use those but all I'm going to do is make sure this one goes into a public subnet
click free to select existing security group and Web access and then launch so just going back to this
diagram what we've done is we've created and that Gateway we've created an entry in our roundtable to
point to it and we've launched a instance in a private subnet.
Now the only difference from this diagram is we've also launched a bastion host and jump post in the
public subnet.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to SSA each into the jump post SS H from there to our private
instance and then we're going to try and pin something on the Internet to see if it works.
So let's get the public IP of our instance in the public subnet.
This is our jump post and we're going to do SSA Dash 8 for Agent forwarding and put in that address
and we're into that instance.
And now we're going to SSA reach into the instance in the private subnet.
So let's go and get the private IP address and connect in and we're in.
So that's great.
Let's see if we can now paying Google dot com and we can we get a response.
We could do pseudo yum update.
That's why we get all our updates.
So we're on the Internet now.
We can access resources on the Internet from the instance in our private subnet using our Nat gateway.
So that's awesome guys.
Now you know how to use a Nat gateway.
These are definitely recommended by AWB us.
So in most instances you're going to choose a Nat Gateway instead of a NASA instance because of the
advantages we went over in the ferry lesson.
So let's just go back to our console and what we need to do now is we're going to leave these two instances
running because we're going to be able to use these in the next lab.
But what I want to do is go back to VPC and we need to get rid of our NAT gateway.
Now you do pay for that gateway so you do pay for them being used.
So what I want to do is just delete my NAT gateway.
It does have an elastic IP address.
So what we'll now find is that we have elastic eyepiece and we need to actually release this elastic
IP so we can try and disassociate it.
It might not work because it's actually associated to the Nat gateways.
What you'll have to do is just wait for the NAT gateway to be deletes it and then make sure you remember
to get rid of your elastic IPC don't pay any money so that's it for this lab guys we've covered Nat
gateways and in the next lab we're going to cover Nat instances.